---
title: "Url.Action is returning null"
---
<div class="note">
   <p>
      Imported from the CodePlex archive for reference purposes. <b>Support for MvcCodeRouting has ended.</b></p>
</div>
<div id="post1013557" class="discussion-comment op">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2013-03-11T14:49:19.043-07:00" title="2013-03-11T14:49:19.043-07:00">March 11, 2013</time>
   </div>
   <div class="discussion-message">What is required to get the various extension methods (URL.Action, Html.ActionLink, etc..) to return a proper URL? Seems that no matter what I pass to these methods, it won't match any routes. I don't get any exception, I just get an null or empty href (depending on the exact method used).<br />
<br />
Here's a brief description of the issue in my environment (cut down to show just 1 controller).<br />
<br />
I've got the following controller defined...<br />
<pre><code>    /Controllers/Authentication/AccountController</code></pre>

with two actions...<br />
<pre><code>    LogOn
    LogOff</code></pre>

/Routes.axd shows...<br />
<pre><code>routes.MapRoute(null, &quot;Authentication/Account/{action}&quot;, 
    new { controller = @&quot;Account&quot; }, 
    new { action = @&quot;LogOn|LogOff&quot; }, 
    new[] { &quot;MyCompany.WebApp.Controllers.Authentication&quot; });</code></pre>

I can manually navigate to /Authentication/Account/LogOn &amp; /Authentication/Account/LogOff and both actions return the expected view.<br />
<br />
However, if I put something like the code below into my Home/Index.cshtml page, every single one of the Url.Action calls  returns null and the Html.ActionLink calls render an A tag with an empty href attribute.<br />
<pre><code>&lt;ol&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Url.Action(&quot;LogOut&quot;, &quot;~~Authentication.Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Url.Action(&quot;LogOut&quot;, &quot;~Authentication.Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Url.Action(&quot;LogOut&quot;, &quot;Authentication.Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Url.Action(&quot;LogOut&quot;, &quot;Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ol&gt;

&lt;ol&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Html.ActionLink(&quot;Test LogIn&quot;, &quot;LogIn&quot;, &quot;~~Authentication.Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Html.ActionLink(&quot;Test LogIn&quot;, &quot;LogIn&quot;, &quot;~Authentication.Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Html.ActionLink(&quot;Test LogIn&quot;, &quot;LogIn&quot;, &quot;Authentication.Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;@Html.ActionLink(&quot;Test LogIn&quot;, &quot;LogIn&quot;, &quot;Account&quot;)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ol&gt;
</code></pre>

</div>
</div>
<div id="post1013569" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2013-03-11T15:07:57.523-07:00" title="2013-03-11T15:07:57.523-07:00">March 11, 2013</time> <a href="#post1013569" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">This could happen if the current route was not created by MvcCodeRouting, in this case the HomeController. Is that the case here?<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1013635" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2013-03-11T19:12:56.723-07:00" title="2013-03-11T19:12:56.723-07:00">March 11, 2013</time> <a href="#post1013635" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">No, all routes are created using the default MvcCodeRouting options. I did not manually create any routes, and the index action on the home controller does show up in the routes.axd output.<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1013642" class="discussion-comment marked-as-answer">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2013-03-11T19:43:24.187-07:00" title="2013-03-11T19:43:24.187-07:00">March 11, 2013</time> <a href="#post1013642" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">I just noticed, the routes show LogOn|LogOff, but the view uses LogIn/LogOut :-)<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1013935" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2013-03-12T07:30:42.123-07:00" title="2013-03-12T07:30:42.123-07:00">March 12, 2013</time> <a href="#post1013935" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">I hate it when that happens. :) <br />
After getting a good night of sleep, I noticed the same thing. <br />
Thanks.<br />
</div>
</div>