---
title: "Razor View Templates from a shared DLL?"
---
<div class="note">
   Imported from the CodePlex archive for reference purposes. <b>Support for MvcCodeRouting has ended.</b></div>
<div id="post1263487" class="discussion-comment op">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-07-07T17:24:46.57-07:00" title="2014-07-07T17:24:46.57-07:00">July 7, 2014</time>
   </div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Hey Max,<br />
<br />
I have been placing common Controllers into a shared dll for awhile now. Referencing this dll from each of my MVC apps the routing just works great with your infrastructure. I am at a point now where I have some razor templated views that I would like to also keep in that shared dll. Is this possible?<br />
<br />
I've read through your 'embedded-resource' and 'extract-views' doc but it is sparse on examples and I can't seem to get this to work. I always get the dreaded 'The view 'MyAction' or its master was not found or no view engine supports the searched locations. The following locations were searched:'<br />
<br />
I do have a rootController from the shared dll registered properly with:<br />
<br />
routes.MapCodeRoutes(<br />
   rootController: typeof(Namespace.SubFolder.Controllers.MyController)<br />
   , settings: new CodeRoutingSettings { EnableEmbeddedViews = true }<br />
);<br />
I created a new folder in the shared dll Namespace/SubFolder/Views/MyController and then created a MyAction.cshtml file in that folder. Didn't work, so I checked your doc and tried renaming MyAction.cshtml to Namespace.SubFolder.Views.MyController.MyAction.cshtml and then changed the Build Action to 'Embedded Resource'. That also did not work. <br />
<br />
What am I doing wrong? Thanks.<br />
Wade<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1263498" class="discussion-comment marked-as-answer">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-07-07T18:35:44.927-07:00" title="2014-07-07T18:35:44.927-07:00">July 7, 2014</time> <a href="#post1263498" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message"><ul>
<li>First, make sure you are not using MVC 5.0, there's a bug that makes embedded views not to work. Use 5.1 or greater, or 4.</li>
<li>In the shared project, create the Views folder at the root of the project, just like you do in your host MVC app.</li>
<li>Create subfolders and views just like you would do in your host app.</li>
<li>Set the Build Action to 'Embedded Resource' for each view.</li>
<li>
On the host app you have to call <code>ViewEngines.Engines.EnableCodeRouting()</code> and use the <code>EnableEmbeddedViews = true</code> setting.<br />
</li>
</ul>
The documentation is a bit confusing, because it is explaining what Visual Studio does for you.<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1263664" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-07-08T07:35:20.44-07:00" title="2014-07-08T07:35:20.44-07:00">July 8, 2014</time> <a href="#post1263664" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Thanks Max, I reviewed your checklist and got it to work. <br />
<br />
For me....<br />
<br />
1) I am using MVC 4<br />
2) I moved views folder to root of shared library project<br />
3) Left my subfolder structure intact but moved it to the new root location<br />
4) Build action on view was already set to 'embedded resource' but I double-checked after performing step 3.<br />
5) I had forgotten to mention it in my initial post but I did have those 2 calls already in place<br />
<br />
I reran app and it still failed. So I also did the following...<br />
<br />
6) Renamed my view from Namespace.SubFolder.Views.MyController.MyAction.cshtml to just MyAction.cshtml.<br />
7) I noticed that (under project properties) my library 'Assembly name' was MyCompany.Shared but my 'Default namespace' was just MyCompany. Once I changed the 'Default namespace' to match 'Assembly name' I reran it and now it works!<br />
<br />
Seems my problem must have been some combination of items 2, 6 and 7.<br />
<br />
Coolness Max - you've got great support on this great infrastructure.<br />
<br />
Wade<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1289380" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-08-12T11:36:04.223-07:00" title="2014-08-12T11:36:04.223-07:00">August 12, 2014</time> <a href="#post1289380" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Follow-up question Max. In the above scenario where my razor templates are in a shared library as embedded resources I am having a problem with the razor Intellisense. It is not seeing the namespaces I have configured in my MVC project web.config file. <br />
<br />
web.config entries at base of Views folder in Mvc application<br />
<pre><code>    &lt;system.web.webPages.razor&gt;
        &lt;host factoryType=&quot;System.Web.Mvc.MvcWebRazorHostFactory, System.Web.Mvc, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=31BF3856AD364E35&quot; /&gt;
        &lt;pages pageBaseType=&quot;MyCustomRazorBasePage&quot;&gt;
            &lt;namespaces&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;Custom1&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;Cusotm2&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Collections&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Collections.Generic&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Web.Helpers&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Web.Mvc&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Web.Mvc.Ajax&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Web.Mvc.Html&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Web.Routing&quot; /&gt;
                &lt;add namespace=&quot;System.Web.WebPages&quot; /&gt;
            &lt;/namespaces&gt;
        &lt;/pages&gt;
    &lt;/system.web.webPages.razor&gt;
  &lt;system.web&gt;
    &lt;httpHandlers&gt;
       &lt;add path=&quot;routes.axd&quot; verb=&quot;GET,HEAD&quot; type=&quot;MvcCodeRouting.RouteDebugHandler, MvcCodeRouting&quot; /&gt;
    &lt;/httpHandlers&gt;
    &lt;pages validateRequest=&quot;false&quot; pageParserFilterType=&quot;System.Web.Mvc.ViewTypeParserFilter, System.Web.Mvc, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral,   PublicKeyToken=31BF3856AD364E35&quot;        pageBaseType=&quot;MyCustomRazorBasePage&quot;  userControlBaseType=&quot;System.Web.Mvc.ViewUserControl, System.Web.Mvc, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=31BF3856AD364E35&quot;&gt;
      &lt;controls&gt;
        &lt;add assembly=&quot;System.Web.Mvc, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=31BF3856AD364E35&quot; namespace=&quot;System.Web.Mvc&quot; tagPrefix=&quot;mvc&quot; /&gt;
      &lt;/controls&gt;
    &lt;/pages&gt;
  &lt;/system.web&gt;</code></pre>

If I explicitly prefix my references in the template, Intellisense works fine.<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1289410" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-08-12T12:48:37.197-07:00" title="2014-08-12T12:48:37.197-07:00">August 12, 2014</time> <a href="#post1289410" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">You have to use the Web.config in the shared library project, although that file is not meant to be deployed it helps in situations like this.<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1289450" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-08-12T13:34:45.957-07:00" title="2014-08-12T13:34:45.957-07:00">August 12, 2014</time> <a href="#post1289450" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Made a copy of web.config and moved it into root of shared library project. Cleaned solution, rebuilt and reloaded Visual Studio. VS is still ignoring the namespaces.<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1289471" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-08-12T14:28:30.827-07:00" title="2014-08-12T14:28:30.827-07:00">August 12, 2014</time> <a href="#post1289471" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Max, please don't waste any time on this. I don't think this is related to your framework. I just created a new project from scratch to contain the shared views, models and controllers. It is working there (and was working on my Shared Library up until this week. <br />
<br />
I think something just got out of synch somewhere along the way. At the point, the easiest fix is using this new project and moving over the existing code.<br />
<br />
Thanks,<br />
Wade<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1289489" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2014-08-12T15:46:50.893-07:00" title="2014-08-12T15:46:50.893-07:00">August 12, 2014</time> <a href="#post1289489" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">I was just going to suggest you do exactly that, glad you could figure it out.<br />
</div>
</div>