---
title: "Support for Http GET, POST, PUT, DELETE  constraints"
---
<div class="note">
   Discussions were imported from the CodePlex archive for reference purposes. <b>Support for MvcCodeRouting has ended.</b></div>
<div id="post1359840" class="discussion-comment op">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2015-03-04T08:11:15.943-08:00" title="2015-03-04T08:11:15.943-08:00">March 4, 2015</time>
   </div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Hey Max, <br />
<br />
I am having problems with controllers in a RESTful web API. <br />
<br />
I have two action signatures in the controller both with the same name. One is intended to retrieve a record (Http Get) and the 2nd is intended to update that record (Http Put). (Sometimes I have need for an Http Delete and/or Post as well.). These actions are tagged with <br />
the appropriate System.Web.Mvc.HttpxxxAttributes<br />
<br />
Example:<br />
<pre><code>[HttpGet]
public ActionResult Detail(string recordId) { // return record here }

[HttpPut]
public ActionResult Detail(Record updatedRecord) { // update record here}
</code></pre>

I get an MvcCodeRouting runtime error with the above ('An item with the same key has already been added.'). Is MvcCodeRouting not able to differentiate the two routes above?<br />
<br />
A couple relevant lines from the call stack....<br />
<br />
   System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary<code>2.Add(TKey key, TValue value) +10<br />   MvcCodeRouting.RouteFactory.CreateRouteSettings(IEnumerable</code>1 actions) in d:\foss\MvcCodeRouting\src\MvcCodeRouting\RouteFactory.cs:317<br />
<br />
Thanks,<br />
Wade<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1359843" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2015-03-04T08:25:47.437-08:00" title="2015-03-04T08:25:47.437-08:00">March 4, 2015</time> <a href="#post1359843" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Please disregard Max. After reviewing my controller again (I had many other actions on this controller) I found an action 'Copy' that had the same signature (Record copiedRecord) but which hadn't been tagged with a System.Web.Mvc.HttpPutAttribute. Once action was decorated, no more complaints.<br />
<br />
I am good to go!<br />
</div>
</div>
<div id="post1360111" class="discussion-comment">
   <div class="discussion-header">Commented on 
      <time datetime="2015-03-05T07:36:42.393-08:00" title="2015-03-05T07:36:42.393-08:00">March 5, 2015</time> <a href="#post1360111" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Still, a proper error message would be more helpful. I'll look into it.<br />
</div>
</div>