---
title: "Compatibility with ApiExplorer"
---
<div id="post1424019" class="discussion-comment op">
   <div class="discussion-header"><b>??</b> commented on 
      <time datetime="2015-05-07T12:52:28.393-07:00" title="2015-05-07T12:52:28.393-07:00">May 7, 2015</time> <a href="#1424019" class="post-link">link</a></div>
   <div class="discussion-message">Hi Max,<br />
<br />
I am trying to incorporate API documentation using Microsoft's ApiExplorer from the System.Web.Http.Description namespace. I can't get it to work with MvcCodeRouting.<br />
<br />
You can reproduce the problem by adding the following code to the tail of a Global.Application_Start event handler and placing a breakpoint on it.<br />
<br />
var api = GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.Services.GetApiExplorer().ApiDescriptions;<br />
<br />
The descriptions are supposed to come from the registered routes. The description count returns 0 in my MvcCodeRouting projects even though there are 55 routes registered. As a sanity check I spun up a new default 4.5.1 Web Application, added the same line and it returns 1 route and 1 valid Descriptor as expected.<br />
<br />
Also, a peculiarity I noticed while troubleshooting this issue is the following debug line returns the proper count of 55 routes in one of my MvcCodeRouting projects.<br />
<br />
? GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.Routes.Count<br />
<br />
But when I try to view GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.Routes.Last() in my immediate window I get an InvalidOperationException. The same troubleshooting test in the non-MvcCodeRouting project returns all route info as expected. <br />
<br />
How to get these two (MvcCodeRouting and ApiExplorer) to work together?<br />
</div>
</div>